src/app/work/projects/devkind-blog-added-features-and-responsiveness-enhancements.mdx, before:

---
title: "Devkind Blog: Added Features and Responsiveness Enhancements"
slug: "devkind-blog-added-features-and-responsiveness-enhancements"
publishedAt: "2025-05-28"
summary: "Enhanced blog functionality with dynamic components and responsive fixes in a Next.js/Strapi stack."
team:
  - name: "Samiullah Javed"
    role: "Developer Intern"
    avatar: ""
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam1-khan/"
link: "https://devkind.com.au/blog"
---

## Overview

Implemented key improvements to Devkind's blog platform focusing on content presentation and author experience. Worked with Next.js frontend and Strapi CMS to add new components and fix existing issues.

## Key Features

- **Dynamic FAQs Component**: Added to blogs through Strapi's backend, editable by content authors
- **Fixed Markdown Table Rendering**: Resolved formatting issues in blog posts
- **Improved Responsiveness**: Optimized blog page layout for all screen sizes
- **Collapsible Table of Contents**: Automatic generation from blog headings with responsive behavior
- **Ongoing Work**: Services landing page development (not yet shipped)

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: Next.js, Chakra UI
- **Backend**: Strapi CMS
- **Styling**: Responsive CSS techniques

## Challenges and Learnings

- Integrating dynamic components with Strapi's content structure
- Debugging markdown rendering pipeline for tables
- Ensuring consistent behavior across desktop/mobile views
- Implementing TOC functionality without external libraries

## Outcome

- More flexible content authoring with dynamic FAQs
- Better readability of complex content through table fixes
- Improved mobile experience for blog readers
- Smoother navigation with collapsible TOC

[View Live Blog](https://devkind.com.au/blog)

Commit message:

refact: added and edited work, added images and remvoed logs

src/app/work/projects/devkind-blog-added-features-and-responsiveness-enhancements.mdx, after:

---
title: "Devkind Website: Added Features and Site Enhancements"
slug: "devkind-website-added-features-and-site-enhancements"
publishedAt: "2025-08-30"
summary: "Improved Devkind's website with new features and key bug fixes. Worked with Next.js, Strapi, and other tools."
team:
  - name: "Samiullah Javed"
    role: "Developer Intern"
    avatar: ""
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam1-khan/"
link: "https://devkind.com.au/"
images: ["/images/projects/devkind-website-added-features-and-site-enhancements.png"]
---

## Overview

Improved Devkind's main website by adding new components and fixing key issues. The work focused on both the look and the function of the site. I worked with **Next.js** for the frontend and **Strapi** for the backend.

## Key Features

- **New Content Blocks**: Added dynamic FAQs and process blocks. These can be added and edited from the Strapi CMS.
- **Chat System Migration**: Moved from Crisp Chat to Freshworks Chat. This gave a better live chat tool.
- **Improved Blog Tools**: Added a collapsible table of contents for blogs. It builds from the blog headings.
- **Bug Fixes**: Solved many issues across the site.
  - Fixed markdown tables and other text formatting.
  - Corrected issues with meta data fetching.
  - Fixed problems with the Calendly and Slack integrations.
  - Solved various layout and responsiveness bugs.

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: Next.js, Chakra UI, GraphQL
- **Backend**: Strapi CMS
- **Tools**: Docker for local setup, Gitlab

## Challenges and Learnings

- Setting up new components in both the Strapi backend and Next.js frontend.
- Finding and fixing complex bugs like the meta data issue.
- Learning how to use Docker for local development.
- Making sure the website looked and worked right on all devices.

## Outcome

- The website is now more flexible.
- Authors can create richer pages with new content blocks.
- The user experience is better due to fewer bugs.
- Blog readers can now find information easier with the new table of contents.

[View Live Website](https://devkind.com.au/)
