src/app/work/projects/simple-invoice-generator-my-first-true-full-stack-project.mdx, before:

---
title: "Simple-Invoice-Generator: My First True Full-Stack Project"
slug: "simple-invoice-generator-my-first-true-full-stack-project"
publishedAt: "2025-07-18"
summary: "Building a real-world invoice generator from scratch, learning APIs, Next.js, Django, and more—all at once."
team:
  - name: "Samiullah Javed"
    role: "Freelance Developer"
    avatar: ""
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam1-khan/"
link: "https://github.com/sam1-khan/Simple-Invoice-Generator"
---

## Overview

This project is where I dove headfirst into the world of full-stack development. The goal? Build a simple, robust invoice generator for a procurement service provider—something that would actually get used, not just sit in a portfolio. I had never built a real API before, never touched Next.js, and Django was just a word I'd seen in tutorials. So, I did what any developer does: I hit Stack Overflow, watched a ton of YouTube, read docs until my eyes hurt, and just started building.

## Key Features

- **Full-Stack Architecture**: Clean separation between backend (Django) and frontend (Next.js), talking over a REST API.
- **Invoice Management**: Create, view, and manage invoices with all the details a real business needs.
- **Client & Transaction Handling**: Add clients, log transactions, and keep everything organized.
- **PDF Generation**: Generate professional invoices as PDFs, ready to send or print.
- **Authentication**: Secure login and user management (because, yes, people care about their invoices).
- **Responsive UI**: Built with Shadcn UI and TypeScript for a modern, accessible experience.

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Django, Django Ninja (for REST API), Django Ninja JWT (auth), PostgreSQL
- **Frontend**: Next.js, TypeScript, Shadcn UI, Tailwind CSS
- **PDF Generation**: Custom logic for invoice PDFs
- **Other**: Docker for local dev, GitHub Actions for CI/CD

## Challenges and Learnings

This was my first time doing almost everything: writing APIs, wiring up a Next.js frontend, and making the backend talk to the frontend. I learned the hard way that nothing works the first time. I spent hours debugging CORS, figuring out how to serialize data, and making sure authentication actually worked. Most of my progress came from reading docs, searching Stack Overflow, and just trying things until they worked. It was frustrating, but also kind of addictive.

## Outcome

The Simple-Invoice-Generator is now a working tool that actually helps a procurement business get paid faster and keep their billing organized. I learned more in a few weeks on this project than in months of tutorials. Now, building APIs, wiring up frontends, and deploying full-stack apps feels way less scary.

- [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/sam1-khan/Simple-Invoice-Generator)
- [DCC Digest](https://gitdocs1.s3.amazonaws.com/digests/sam1-khan-simple-invoice-generator/c13a650b-7700-45c6-8e1b-f043c5273f9d.txt)

---

This project is proof that you can go from zero to shipping real software if you just keep pushing, keep Googling, and aren't afraid to break things along the way.

Commit message:

refact: added and edited work, added images and remvoed logs

src/app/work/projects/simple-invoice-generator-my-first-true-full-stack-project.mdx, after:

---
title: "Simple-Invoice-Generator: My First True Full-Stack Project"
slug: "simple-invoice-generator-my-first-true-full-stack-project"
publishedAt: "2025-08-30"
summary: "I built a full-stack invoice generator from scratch. I learned to use APIs, Next.js, and Django."
team:
  - name: "Samiullah Javed"
    role: "Freelance Developer"
    avatar: ""
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam1-khan/"
link: "https://github.com/sam1-khan/Simple-Invoice-Generator"
---

## Overview

This was my first full-stack project. My goal was to build a tool that a real business could use. It needed to create invoices. I had to learn many new things. I learned to build APIs, use Next.js, and work with Django. I found solutions by searching online and reading documentations.

***

## Key Features

- **Full-Stack Design**: The front and back ends work on their own. They talk to each other using APIs.
- **Invoice Tools**: You can create and view invoices. The tool keeps track of all the details.
- **Client and Invoice Tracking**: You can add clients and track invoices.
- **PDF Creation**: It makes invoices into professional PDFs. These are ready to print.
- **User Login**: The system has a secure login. This keeps user data safe.
- **Modern Design**: The site looks good on all devices. I used Shadcn UI and TypeScript.

***

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Django, Django Ninja
- **Frontend**: Next.js, TypeScript, Shadcn UI
- **PDFs**: ReactPDF for making PDFs
- **Database**: MySQL

***

## Challenges and Learnings

This was my first time doing most of these things. I wrote my first API. I connected the front end to the back end. It took hours to fix problems. I had to solve issues with data and user login. I learned by reading docs and trying things out. This made me a better developer.

***

## Outcome

The Simple-Invoice-Generator is a working tool. It helps a business get paid faster. Now, these types of projects do not seem so hard.

***

- [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/sam1-khan/Simple-Invoice-Generator)

This project shows you can build real software. You just have to keep trying. Don't be afraid to make mistakes.
